---
layout: academics
categories: 
  - academics
name: Pre-Kindergarten
date: 2015-09-03T18:00:00-05:00
website: http://brentanopreschoolroom113.weebly.com/
---

### Pre-Kindergarten Registration

Brentano’s Pre-Kindergarten program is a five star program!

Pre-Kindergarten applications will gladly be accepted at the designated ares
from April 3rd to May 3rd.

How to apply:

* On-line at www.cps.edu/readytolearn
* On April 29th at 8:00am only, a representative form the Chicago Ready to
* Learn Program will be at Brentano for applications and detailed
information. We would love to see you there!

* Pick up applications at the school

Application Site: Yates School, 1839 N. Richmond St. between 8:30-3:30

 
### Welcome to Brentano’s Preschool Page!

Brentano offers two program models that service students for half a day. Each
classroom is staffed with certified early childhood teachers and a
paraprofessional. Both programs provide unique and special learning
opportunities for all learners. The blended program specializes in targeting
areas in which students need additional support. Both models are outstanding!
Students exit the program ready for kindergarten and beyond.

Both programs follow the Illinois Early Learning Standards, and a theme-based
science and math-focused curricula which encourages literacy, mathematic
development, technology and other kindergarten readiness skills.

Throughout the year our students are engaged in learning about Animals, Health
and Nutrition, Family and many other exciting themes that children and families
enjoy. During these Project based Learning experiences our families are invited
to be part of the learning process with their children.

You can learn more about our class by visiting the room 113 website at
http://brentanopreschoolroom113.weebly.com/

Both Pre-Kindergarten programs emphasize:

* Social Emotional Development 
* Concept development 
* Letter and number recognition 
* Basic number sense 
* Communication/listening and speaking
* Vocabulary development 
* Comprehension/Reasoning Fine 
* Gross motor development

Our teaching strategies consist of hands-on exploration, inquiry-based
learning, and learning centers based on children’s interests.

Unique to Brentano’s Pre-Kindergarten and primary grades is our partnership
with the renowned Erikson Institute. This program provides extensive
professional development and coaching for our Pre-Kindergarten through third
grade teachers in the area of early mathematics instruction.

Some of the events in the preschool programs are as follows:

* PNC Initiative (Science-focused) 
* Halloween Parade Winter Assembly performances 
* Black History Month celebration 
* 100TH Day of School celebration 
* Participation in National Center of Quality Teaching teacher training video 
* Dr. Seuss’s Birthday celebration 
* Field trip to Lincoln Park Zoo 
* Brentano’s History Fair—History of the United States

…and more events forthcoming!

If you are interested in finding out more about our preschool programs or
scheduling a visit, please contact us!

Mrs. Jenab, Mrs. Jennifer, & Mrs. Gonzalez, Room #113 jypatel@cps.edu /
jsauler@cps.edu (773) 534-4903

Mrs. Sanew and Mrs. Medina, Room #105 vsanew@cps.edu (773) 534-4642
