---
layout: academics
categories: 
  - academics
name: Kindergarten - First grade
date: 2015-09-03T18:00:00-05:00
website: 
---
We are having an amazing year so far! With jumping leaps on our NWEA MAP
testing and progress monitoring throughout the year, we will continue to grow
and develop into capable second graders. Students at all levels are being
challenged daily through differentiated instruction, small groups, and centers.
Our instruction strategies are guided through assessment as means to meet
students’ needs and abilities.

Throughout all subject areas students have learned a variety of skills derived
from the Common Core State Standards. Individual instruction, guided reading,
and literacy centers focus on developing the skills necessary in building
a solid foundation for reading (spelling, word work, vocabulary,
independent reading, reading responses, and much more)!  Writing
has also been a major component of all subject areas this year. In math,
students learn how to solve word problems by drawing a picture, creating a
number model, and finally, giving a written explanation of how they solved
the problem. Writing has been integrated in social studies and science,
writing non-fiction responses, and also conducting research on a variety
of topics. Finally, a major component of writing assessment has been
reading responses. These responses are conducted daily and assessed
weekly. These responses help students develop their explanations and
thinking. Some of the responses have included main idea and supporting
ideas, narrative writing, predicting, and even persuasive writing.

The mathematics instruction has been based on Everyday Mathematics curriculum,
from University of Chicago. In addition, we have partnered with the Erikson
Early Childhood Project in order to receive supplemental coaching for
mathematic instruction. This has been beneficial for both the students and
the teachers. By taking a deeper approach to mathematics, students are able
to explain their mathematical thinking.  Some major projects first grade
has accomplished:

* Pumpkin Carving (Estimation of pumpkin seed & voting on face carving)
* Ocean Animal Research Project
* Presidential Voting Project (partnered with Kindergarten Room 107)
* Parent & Student Chicago History Project
* Plant Experiments
* Persuasive Writing to keep Brentano School Open
* Letter Writing to President Obama
* Chicago History Fair Quilt Project

Some upcoming projects:

* Life Cycles
* Caterpillar to Butterfly
* Tadpole to Frog
* College and Career Day Speakers
* Behavior disabilities and learning disability empathy (partnered up with Ms. Harris 6th/7th grade)

Curriculums & Partnerships:

* Everyday Mathematics (University of Chicago)
* FOSS Science Kits
* Erikson Institute Early Childhood Project
* Common Core Standards
* CPS Literacy Framework
* New Generation Science Standards
