---
layout: staff
categories: 
  - staff_upper
name: Ms. Bha
date: 2015-09-03T18:00:00-05:00
title: 6th Grade
room: 314
image: None
email: aybha@cps.edu
university: Northeastern Illinois
degree: Master of Science in Mathematics and Education
---

### Teaching Philosophy
Students are expected to arrive to class on time prepared with the materials
they need and ready to learn.  As part of a larger classroom community, each
student is responsible for contributing towards a safe, organized, and caring
learning environment.  All students are expected to try their best, approach
challenges with a “growth mindset,” and ask for assistance when they need extra
support. 

As an educator, I believe it is best practice to teach with the gradual release
model where transferable skills are modeled to students, practiced in group
settings with the teacher’s guidance, and then released for students to
practice individually so that they become autonomous in their work.  I provide
individualized instruction through small group instruction and individual
conferencing.  I also use data collected from students’ classwork and
standardized test scores to inform my instruction and tailor lessons to
students’ individual learning needs.

### Projects

6th grade math students will be taught a curriculum that is aligned to the
Common Core State Standards for 6th grade mathematics that focuses on students’
conceptual, relational, and procedural understandings of mathematics.

Topics include Expressions and Equations.

### Communication
You can reach me via email at aybha@cps.edu, or you can send a note to school
with your son or daughter to share your concerns. I am also available to speak
with parents over the phone or to meet in person if a meeting is scheduled in
advance.
